Which combination/interaction of one-two-three factors (service line, carrier, denial type) caused the greatest difference h/h as measured by both proportional change (for that combination h/h) and nominal change (dollar difference in claims for that combination h/h)? This study can be performed in levels/stages: if the underlying components are not uniform in their distribution of proportion and nominal difference h/h, I apply the analysis to the lower level, and so on. We can measure change on three different metrics, in my opinion: a) h/h difference in nominal dollars; b) h/h proportional change; c) h/h difference of freq of denials. Which of these metrics should I focus on?

The proper iteration to the analysis, I believe, follow one of two workflows:
denial type proportional $ changes and absolute $ changes -> carrier -> service line
analyze service line -> analyze carrier -> analyze denial types

I consider the denial type to be a quasi dependent variable. What do you think?

After we identify the most prominent changes from one group (EITHER service line OR Carrier); look at the distribution of h/h change among the component service line or carrier (the factor excluded from the higher level study). We expect uniform changes in h/h metrics of the underlying components... if this is not the case, will do a deeper dive into the proceeding level below.

Have to decide what is in the control of the company: denial type and level of detail when filing claims for particular servie lines. Claim amount and insurance carrier are more random because the mix/ranking of patients' insurance carriers and claim amounts can change. In order to provde this, would have to dispatch the volatility we observe with BCBS, UHC, Medicare and Medicaid.

My path will be:
1) service line -> denial type
2) denial type -> service line

My objective: Recommend the combination of factors that when addressed could decrease denials. We know that total denial dollars were significantly reduced for 'RadOnc' and 'Radiology' and went up a bit for 'MedOnc'. What combinations of factors were responsible for that decrease? If present, why didn't that combination deliver similar results in the other service line?

look into plt.setp(axis_object.get_xticklabels()
seaborn facetGrid

'Service Lines of interest:
'MedOnc','RadOnc','Radiology'

column names: ['Month of Service', 'Denied Amount', 'Insurance Name', 'Service Line', 'Denial Type']

